---
layout: page
title: "Tagging"
category: userguide/api
date: 2017-07-07 00:14:00
disqus: 1
---

* TOC
{:toc}

For easier navigation through document revisions, Webstrate includes tagging. A tag is a label applied to a specific [version](/userguide/versioning.html) of the document.

All tags for a document can be seen by either accessing `http://<hostname>/<webstrateId>?tags` or calling `webstrate.tags()` in the Webstrate. The current tag can also be seen by calling `webstrate.tag()`.

Listening for tagging and untagging can be done using the two events `tag` and `untag`:

```javascript
webstrate.on("tag", function(version, label) {
  // A version has been tagged with a label.
});
```

Subscribing to the `untag` event is done in a similar fashion, except only a `version` parameter will be given.

## Manual tagging
Tagging can be done by calling `webstrate.tag(label, [version])`. If no version is supplied, the current version will be used. A label can be any text string that does not begin with a number.

Restoring a document from a tag can be achieved by calling `webstrate.restore(label)`.

A tag can be removed by calling `webstrate.untag(label)` or `webstrate.untag(version)`.

All labels are unique for each Webstrate (i.e. no two versions of the same document can carry the same label), and likewise each version can only have one label. Adding a label to a version that is already tagged will overwrite the existing tag. Adding a label that already exists on another version will move the tag to the new version.

## Auto-tagging

In addition to manual tagging, Webstrates also automatically creates tags when a user starts
modifying a document after a set period of inactivity. See
[tagging in the configuration section](/userguide/server-config.html#tagging).