---
layout: page
title: "API overview"
category: userguide
date: 2017-05-30 23:30:02
disqus: 1
---

## [Events](/userguide/api/events.html)

The user may subscribe to certain events triggered by Webstrates, allowing the user to get notified
when Webstrates has loaded, an element changes, a user joins, a signal arrives, etc.

## [Transient](/userguide/api/transient.html)

Transient data is temporary, local data, i.e. data that does not get persisted or synchronized to
other clients, and disappears on reload. Transient data is made through transient elements and
attributes.

## [Cookies](/userguide/api/cookies.html)

Webstrates has a built-in cookie mechanism that allows logged in users to persist JavaScript objects
across devices.

## [Oplog and Activity History](/userguide/api/oplog-and-activity-history.html)

`webstrate.getOps()` lets the user access the oplog. `webstrate.user.history()` makes it possible
to query the server for a list of webstrates the user recently has been active in.

## [Assets](/userguide/api/assets.html)

Assets (or files) can be attached to webstrates through POST requests. Just like webstrates, assets
are versioned. Steps can be made when uploading CSV files to make them searchable.

## [Client Management](/userguide/api/client-management.html)

Tools for monitoring clients currently connected to a webstrate, as well as monitoring all the current
user's connected clients to any webstrate on the server.

## [Signaling](/userguide/api/signaling.html)

Send messages to other connected users through DOM elements, both primitive (serializable) objects,
but also WebRTC-based peer-to-peer data streaming.

## [Messaging](/userguide/api/messaging.html)

Messaging allows users to send cross-webstrate messages between users, even when a user isn’t
online. It’s basically emails for Webstrates.

## [Tagging](/userguide/api/tagging.html)

To easier manage versions of webstrate documents, Webstrates implements tagging. Tagging allows
users to attach unique string identifiers (tag labels) to specific versions of a webstrate.

## [Throttle and Compose](/userguide/api/throttle-and-compose.html)

Performance can suffer for webstrates with lots of activity. To remedy this, developers can use the
`op-compose` attribute to lessen the strain of operations by combining them. Likewise, `ot-throttle`
can be used to reduce the number of operations sent to the server altogether.

## [Protected Mode](/userguide/api/protected-mode.html)

Protected mode allows developers to make the creation of all new elements or attributes transient to
prevent accidental DOM pollution by extensions and libraries.

## [Permissions](/userguide/api/permissions.html)

Create and manage read and write permissions on a per-webstrate basis on OAuth-enabled Webstrates
servers.

## [Access Tokens](/userguide/api/access-tokens.html)

An access tokens allows users to temporarily grant permissions to other users to act on their
behalf. An access token grants a user the same permissions to a webstrate as the user who generated
the access token.

## [Invite Keys](/userguide/api/invites.html)

Logged-in owners of a webstrate may invite another user or groups of users to their webstrate
using a generated invitation key. The key grants either read, read+write or admin access
depending on how it was generated.

## [Prototype, Restore and Delete](/userguide/api/prototype-restore-delete.html)

Webstrates has very fine-grained versioning control, saving every key stroke in the operations
history. This allows users to restore documents to previous versions (or tags). A complete deletion
of a webstrate is also possible, as well as _prototyping_ from other webstrates.