---
layout: page
title: "Assets"
category: userguide/api
date: 2017-07-06 23:05:11
disqus: 1
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Adding and accessing assets

Webstrates supports the attachment of assets (files). Files can be attached to a Webstrate by
performing a POST request with a file (or multiple files) to the webstrate's path:

```html
<form action="" method="post" enctype="multipart/form-data">
  <input type="file" name="file">
  <input type="submit" value="Upload">
</form>
```

The `action` attribute in the above is the empty string (`""`), meaning the form will submit to
itself. When adding the above code to a webstrate at `/myWebstrate/`, and submitting the form with a
file, the request will be made to `/myWebstrate/` and the file added to myWebstrate. Submitting to
another webstrate is also possible by changing the `action` attribute.

Note that forms *must* have `enctype="multipart/form-data"` to be recognized by the Webstrates
server.

<div class="info box">
  <strong>Wait, there's a function for that!</strong>
  <p>Instead of manually creating a form, one might use
  <code>webstrate.uploadAsset(function callback(error, result), options)</code>.
  Upon calling the function, a file selection dialog will open. After selection a
  file, the file will get uploaded to the current webstrate and the callback function will be
  called. The callback's <code>result</code> value will contain the same JSON object as returned
  when making a manual POST request (see below).</p>
</div>

Uploading an asset will attach it to the current version of the document, but may also be accessed
by future versions, assuming no other asset has been added with the same name since.

For instance,
uploading `cow.jpg` at version 1 to myWebstrate will make it possible to access it at
`/myWebstrate/cow.jpg`, `/myWebstrate/1/cow.jpg`, `/myWebstrate/2/cow.jpg` etc., assuming those
versions exist.

If, however, another `cow.jpg` is uploaded at version 3, any requests to
`/myWebstrate/3/cow.jpg`, `/myWebstrate/4/cow.jpg` and so forth will refer to the new `cow.jpg`, but
any requests to previous versions will still refer to the old `cow.jpg`.

Accessing
`/myWebstrate/cow.jpg` will naturally always point to the newest version of `cow.jpg`.

Copying and restoring Webstrates will also take the assets into account and perform as expected:
Copying a webstrate will also copy over the assets to the new webstrate, so deleting the source
webstrate won't result in the assets in the new webstrate disappearing. Restoring a webstrate will
bump the version of the older assets (e.g. the first version of `cow.jpg`) to the version of the
restored webstrate.

<div class="info box">
  <p>See <a href="/userguide/versioning.html#restoring-a-document">Restoring a document</a> to
   understand why we bump the version when restoring a document.</p>
</div>

When submitting an asset, the server will return a JSON object representing the asset, e.g.:

```json
{
  "v": 128,
  "fileName": "cow.jpg",
  "fileSize": 138666,
  "mimeType": "image/jpg",
  "identifier": "eddc9c8937d6447c550433c5a3f20a65"
}
```

In the above example, we have uploaded an image `cow.jpg` with a size of 135 KB (138666 bytes) to
version 128 of the document (the current version). The assets has also been given the unique
identifier `eddc9c8937d6447c550433c5a3f20a65` in the system. When copying/restoring webstrates,
files may get different version numbers, making it hard to keep track of a specific version of an
asset. The identifier solves this, as the identifier always refers to the same version of an asset.

Note that an asset is always attached to the newest version of a webstrate, because the philosophy
of Webstrates is to never modify the history of a document, but only append to it. Adding an asset
to a previous version would modify the history of the document. For the same reason, restoring a
webstrate also doesn't modify the history, but only appends to it. Assets cannot be deleted, except
by deleting the entire document.

## Listing assets and listening for new assets

All assets for a webstrate can be listed by making a GET request to `/<webstrateId>/?assets` or by
accessing `webstrate.assets`, which contains a list of asset objects. Additionally, it is possible
to get notified whenever an asset is added to the webstrate. This is done by listening for the
`asset` event:

```javascript
webstrate.on("asset", function(asset) {
  // Asset was added to the webstrate.
});
```

## Deleting assets

While the Webstrates philosophy is to never delete history, it can sometimes be useful to exclude
certain assets when copying a webstrate or downloading it. As a result, Webstrates makes a method
available for just this purpose:

```javascript
webstrate.deleteAsset(fileName, function(err, asset) {
  // Asset was deleted or an error occured.
});
```

Deleting an asset will not actually remove it from the server, but rather mark is as deleted at the
current version. Assets can only be deleted at the current version of a webstrate to not conflict
with the philosophy of not rewriting or deleting history.

For instance, deleting an asset (at version 10) of a webstrate, will add the property `deleteAt: 10`
to the `?assets` list:

```javascript
...
{
  "v": 5,
  "fileName": "cow.jpg",
  "fileSize": 154224,
  "mimeType": "image/jpeg",
  "fileHash": "aef9cd8d27a2dd39e3268f6bb5364de3",
  "deletedAt": 10,
  "identifier": "3b2b09c18c6c0f5ff308d2ef16a1b574"
},
...
```

When creating a ZIP from the webstrate -- or copying the webstrate -- at version 10 or later, the
`cow.jpg` asset will not be included in either result. However, the asset will still be accessible
at the prior versions of which it was also accessible before. For instance, if this `cow.png` asset
was added to a webstrate `test`, it would still be accessible at `/test/8/cow.jpg`,
but not at `/test/cow.jpg`, `/test/10/cow.jpg` or any later versions for that matter.

## Access files in ZIP assets

Some JavaScript libraries require certain relative paths to exist, for instance when using
RequireJS. In these cases, one file might attempt to require `module/file.js`, which can be
troublesome as assets exist in a flat file hierarchy, i.e. no sub-folders. To solve this, users
might upload the libraries as ZIP files and access the files from directly within the ZIP files.

For instance, when uploading a library `library.zip` with a folder `module` containing `file.js`,
`file.js` can be accessed using `/webstrateId/library.zip/module/file.js`, which will let RequireJS
(and similar module loaders) work.

## Creating searchable CSV assets

When working with a large dataset, it can be impractical to store it as a plain asset: Whenever the
dataset is to be used, the client has to download the full dataset and possibly search through it.
On top of that, CSV assets are just plain text, so they won't contain any indexes, making the
process of searching and filtering dreadfully slow and very demanding of the client.

When uploading an asset with `searchable=true` set in the POST request's form data, upon arrival on
the server, the CSV file will get parsed, converted to JSON and inserted into a MongoDB database
where the data can the be queried/searched by the client.

<div class="info box">
  <strong>Tip:</strong> The <code>options</code> argument to
  <code>webstrate.uploadAsset(callback[, options])</code> is an object whose keys/values will be set
  in the POST request's form data, so to upload a searchable CSV asset, one might use:
  <code>Use webstrate.uploadAsset(callback, { searchable: true })</code>.
</div>

An uploaded CSV asset can be queried with
`webstrate.searchAsset(assertName, searchObject, function callback(error, result))`.

E.g. calling

```javascript
webstrate.searchAsset(assetName, {
  query: searchQuery
  sort: sortingObject,
  limit: resultLimit,
  skip: entriesToSkip,
}, (err, res) => {
  if (err) throw new Error(err);
  else console.table(res);
});
```

Will search the asset with name `assetName` with MongoDB search query `searchQuery`, sort the result
by `sortingObject` and return `resultLimit` results, skipping the first `entriesToSkip`, and print
them in a table in the console.

`searchQuery` and `sortingObject` are MongoDB search queries. All search parameters are optional.
Limit defaults to 10 and can't exceed 1000.

To learn more about the syntax, see the relevant MongoDB documentation:

- `query`: [`db.collection.find()`](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.find/).
- `sort`: [`cursor.sort()`](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/cursor.sort/).
- `limit`: [`cursor.limit()`](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/cursor.limit/).
- `skip`: [`cursor.skip()`](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/cursor.skip/).

Querying is limited to only allow the operators: `$eq`, `$ne`, `$lt`, `$lte`, `$gt`, `$gte`, `$in`, `$nin`, `$and`, and `$or`.

As an example, the query `{ $and: [ { name: 'Bob' }, { age: { $gt: 20 } } ] }` will return all
people named Bob who are older than 20 (age greater than 20). A sort query `{ city: 1 }` will order
the result by the users' cities (starting with A). `{ city: -1 }` will return the reverse order.

<div class="info box">
  <strong>A note on downloading webstrates (using <code>?dl</code>):</strong>
  <p>For each searchable asset, an empty file will be created with the same name as the original
  file, but with <code>.searchable</code> appended.</p>

  <p>E.g. if a searchable CSV file called <code>data.csv</code> is uploaded, an empty file named
  <code>data.csv.searchable</code> will also be created. This file is used to let the Webstrates
  server know that make <code>data.csv</code> should be searchable if reuploaded. Because of this,
  prototyping across servers (or reuploading a downloaded webstrate) will persist the searchability
  of assets.</p>
</div>
